README.md, before:


<!-- # Directory
dirHome = getwd()

# Image directory
dirImg = paste(dirHome, '/screenshots/image.jpeg', sep = "") -->

# PM2_PES_Board

Maciej Szarek\
szar@zhaw.ch\
TE 302

Michael Peter\
pmic@zhaw.ch\
TE 307

# Table of Contents
1. [Course setup](docs/markdown/general_info.md)
    * [Accounts](docs/markdown/general_info.md#accounts)
    * [Software](docs/markdown/general_info.md#software)
    * [GitHub](docs/markdown/general_info.md#github)
    * [Arm MBed](docs/markdown/general_info.md#arm-mbed)

2. [Hardware](#hardware)
    * [Nucleo F446RE](#nucleo-f446re)
        * [Nucleo pinmap](#nucleo-platform-pinmap)
    * [PES Board](#pes-board)
        * [Pheripherals](#pheripherals)
        * [Pin-Mapping](#pin-mapping)
    * [Hardware tutorials](#hardware-tutorials)
        * [IR Sensor](docs/markdown/ir_sensor.md)
        * [Ultrasonic Sensor](docs/markdown/ultrasonic_sensor.md)
        * [Servo](docs/markdown/servo.md)
        * [DC Motor](docs/markdown/dc_motor.md)
3. [Tips](#tips)

4. [Workshops](#workshops)
    * [Workshop 1](docs/markdown/ws1.md)
    * [Workshop 2](docs/markdown/ws2.md)
    * [Workshop 3](docs/markdown/ws3.md)


<!-- 
- FastPWM default pwm period is 50 mus

-->

<!-- TODO Do something with font sizes, to make it look better -->
## Course setup
In order to be able to complete the course, one must first register on the platforms and obtain the appropriate tools. All the information needed to start the course can be found at the link: [course setup](docs/markdown/general_info.md)

## Hardware
In our course, we'll be utilizing the Nucleo-F446RE microcontroller, which is paired with the PES board designed and developed at ZHAW by ... . The setup includes a variety of sensors and actuators for practical applications.
### Nucleo F446RE
------------------------
The Nucleo-F446RE is a microcontroller development board featuring the STM32F446RET6 microcontroller from STMicroelectronics. It provides a versatile platform for prototyping and developing embedded systems, offering a wide range of peripherals, connectivity options, and compatibility with the Arduino and ST Morpho ecosystems. All of the technical details can be found here: [STM32F446RE Documentation][2] 

<center><img src="docs/images/nucleo_overview.png" alt="Nucleo overview" width="600" /></center>

Arm MBed has prepared a special platform containing key information on the controller used. On it you can find technical information, but most importantly the pinmap of outputs, which is necessary for the correct connection of peripheral devices.
#### Nucleo platform (pinmap)
[<font size="3"> Link </font>][1]

### PES Board
------------------------
PES board is a board created to work with a microcontroller on which appropriate outputs and inputs are designed to allow a more orderly connection of peripheral devices. It provides multiple pinouts for:
- 3 DC-Motor (brushed)
- 4 Servos (occupy the 4 DI/O if used)
- 4 DI/O, 3.3V (5V tolerant)
- 4 AI/O, 3.3V (5V tolerant)
- 3 Encoder-Counter

><b>Important information related to working with PES Board:</b>
>- <b>Using the PES-Board with power On and hardware running while connected to your computer happens at your own risk</b>
>- <b>Under now circumstances leave the battery charger connected to the PES-Board when using the PES-Board of having it connected to your computer </b>
>- <b>Motor encoder soldering can be wrong. Do not assume that if you plug in one Motor and everything works you can the also use the same pings and everything works. You have to make sure that the physical rotation is according to your assumption and that a positive input leads to a positive change of increments</b>
>- <b>Depending on the PES BOARD version DCMotor M3 rotation direction might be inverted</b>
>- <b>Depending on the PES BOARD version the Pin map might differ</b>

The kit includes two sets of 6V batteries, which can be connected to provide a 12V voltage. If using a single battery, the remaining pins should be bridged to utilize a 6V voltage. This voltage powers the motor and is controlled by an external power electronics component known as an H-bridge.

The external power supply enables the board to function independently of the computer, eliminating the need for a connection via the Mini USB cable. Despite this, the board continues to receive a stable 5V supply through electronic elements while offering the option to use a 12V supply for the motors. To activate the external battery power, switch the slider on the PES board to the ON position.
#### Pheripherals
<!-- [pes_board_peripherals.PNG](docs/images/pes_board_peripherals.PNG "PES Board Pheripherals") -->

<center><img src="docs/images/pes_board_peripherals.png" alt="Nucleo overview" width="600" /></center>

PDF: [pes_board_peripherals.pdf](docs/datasheets/pes_board_peripherals.pdf)

#### Pin-Mapping
PDF: [pes_board_pin_mapping.pdf](docs/datasheets/pes_board_pin_mapping.pdf)

### Hardware Tutorials
------------------------
<!-- TODO Add explanation how the files are structured -->
The following links contain the hardware tutorials:
- [<font size="3"> IR Sensor </font>](docs/markdown/ir_sensor.md)
- [<font size="3"> Ultrasonic Sensor </font>](docs/markdown/ultrasonic_sensor.md)
- [<font size="3"> Servo </font>](docs/markdown/servo.md)
- [<font size="3"> DC Motor </font>](docs/markdown/dc_motor.md)

## Tips

## Workshops
The following links contain the workshops instructions:
- [<font size="3"> Workshop 1 </font>](docs/markdown/ws1.md)
- [<font size="3"> Workshop 2 </font>](docs/markdown/ws2.md)
- [<font size="3"> Workshop 3 </font>](docs/markdown/ws3.md)

## Links

<!-- Links -->
[1]: https://os.mbed.com/platforms/ST-Nucleo-F446RE/
[2]: https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f446re.html#documentation

Commit message:

Tips markdown done, updating README file and some small changes to WS2, WS3 and DC motor tutorial

README.md, after:


<!-- # Directory
dirHome = getwd()

# Image directory
dirImg = paste(dirHome, '/screenshots/image.jpeg', sep = "") -->

# PM2_PES_Board

Maciej Szarek\
szar@zhaw.ch\
TE 302

Michael Peter\
pmic@zhaw.ch\
TE 307

# Table of Contents
1. [Course setup](#course-setup)
    * [Accounts](docs/markdown/general_info.md#accounts)
    * [Software](docs/markdown/general_info.md#software)
    * [GitHub](docs/markdown/general_info.md#github)
    * [Arm MBed](docs/markdown/general_info.md#arm-mbed)

2. [Hardware](#hardware)
    * [Nucleo F446RE](#nucleo-f446re)
        * [Nucleo pinmap](#nucleo-platform-pinmap)
    * [PES Board](#pes-board)
        * [Pheripherals](#pheripherals)
        * [Pin-Mapping](#pin-mapping)
    * [Hardware tutorials](#hardware-tutorials)
        * [IR Sensor](docs/markdown/ir_sensor.md)
        * [Ultrasonic Sensor](docs/markdown/ultrasonic_sensor.md)
        * [Servo](docs/markdown/servo.md)
        * [DC Motor](docs/markdown/dc_motor.md)
3. [Tips](#tips)
    * [Project development](docs/markdown/tips.md#project-development)
    * [Programming tips](docs/markdown/tips.md#programming-tips)
    * [Structuring a robot task](docs/markdown/tips.md#structuring-a-robot-task)

4. [Workshops](#workshops)
    * [Workshop 1](docs/markdown/ws1.md)
    * [Workshop 2](docs/markdown/ws2.md)
    * [Workshop 3](docs/markdown/ws3.md)


<!-- 
- FastPWM default pwm period is 50 mus

-->

## Course setup
In order to be able to complete the course, one must first register on the platforms and obtain the appropriate tools. All the information needed to start the course can be found [here](docs/markdown/general_info.md). The file covers all the information about: 
- [<font size="3"> Accounts </font>](docs/markdown/general_info.md#accounts)
- [<font size="3">Software </font>](docs/markdown/general_info.md#software)
- [<font size="3">GitHub </font>](docs/markdown/general_info.md#github)
- [<font size="3">Arm MBed </font>](docs/markdown/general_info.md#arm-mbed)
## Hardware
In our course, we'll be utilizing the Nucleo-F446RE microcontroller, which is paired with the PES board designed and developed at ZHAW by ... . The setup includes a variety of sensors and actuators for practical applications.
### Nucleo F446RE
------------------------
The Nucleo-F446RE is a microcontroller development board featuring the STM32F446RET6 microcontroller from STMicroelectronics. It provides a versatile platform for prototyping and developing embedded systems, offering a wide range of peripherals, connectivity options, and compatibility with the Arduino and ST Morpho ecosystems. All of the technical details can be found here: [STM32F446RE Documentation][2] 

<center><img src="docs/images/nucleo_overview.png" alt="Nucleo overview" width="600" /></center>

Arm MBed has prepared a special platform containing key information on the controller used. On it you can find technical information, but most importantly the pinmap of outputs, which is necessary for the correct connection of peripheral devices.
#### Nucleo platform (pinmap)
[<font size="3"> Link </font>][1]

### PES Board
------------------------
PES board is a board created to work with a microcontroller on which appropriate outputs and inputs are designed to allow a more orderly connection of peripheral devices. It provides multiple pinouts for:
- 3 DC-Motor (brushed)
- 4 Servos (occupy the 4 DI/O if used)
- 4 DI/O, 3.3V (5V tolerant)
- 4 AI/O, 3.3V (5V tolerant)
- 3 Encoder-Counter

><b>Important information related to working with PES Board:</b>
>- <b>Using the PES-Board with power On and hardware running while connected to your computer happens at your own risk</b>
>- <b>Under now circumstances leave the battery charger connected to the PES-Board when using the PES-Board of having it connected to your computer </b>
>- <b>Motor encoder soldering can be wrong. Do not assume that if you plug in one Motor and everything works you can the also use the same pings and everything works. You have to make sure that the physical rotation is according to your assumption and that a positive input leads to a positive change of increments</b>
>- <b>Depending on the PES BOARD version DCMotor M3 rotation direction might be inverted</b>
>- <b>Depending on the PES BOARD version the Pin map might differ</b>

The kit includes two sets of 6V batteries, which can be connected to provide a 12V voltage. If using a single battery, the remaining pins should be bridged to utilize a 6V voltage. This voltage powers the motor and is controlled by an external power electronics component known as an H-bridge.

The external power supply enables the board to function independently of the computer, eliminating the need for a connection via the Mini USB cable. Despite this, the board continues to receive a stable 5V supply through electronic elements while offering the option to use a 12V supply for the motors. To activate the external battery power, switch the slider on the PES board to the ON position.
#### Pheripherals
<!-- [pes_board_peripherals.PNG](docs/images/pes_board_peripherals.PNG "PES Board Pheripherals") -->

<center><img src="docs/images/pes_board_peripherals.png" alt="Nucleo overview" width="600" /></center>

PDF: [<font size="3"> pes_board_peripherals.pdf </font>](docs/datasheets/pes_board_peripherals.pdf)

#### Pin-Mapping
PDF: [<font size="3"> pes_board_pin_mapping.pdf </font>](docs/datasheets/pes_board_pin_mapping.pdf)

### Hardware Tutorials
------------------------
The following links contain the hardware tutorials. The files structure encompass specifications and technical notes detailing the components. Following that, there's guidance on connecting to the microcontroller. The subsequent sections cover creating software objects, calibration procedures, and controlling actuators or retrieving pertinent information from sensors as needed.
- [<font size="3"> IR Sensor </font>](docs/markdown/ir_sensor.md)
- [<font size="3"> Ultrasonic Sensor </font>](docs/markdown/ultrasonic_sensor.md)
- [<font size="3"> Servo </font>](docs/markdown/servo.md)
- [<font size="3"> DC Motor </font>](docs/markdown/dc_motor.md)

## Tips
All the tips that you might find useful can be found [here](docs/markdown/tips.md). In the file you can find information about: 
- [<font size="3"> Project development </font>](docs/markdown/tips.md#project-development)
- [<font size="3"> Programming tips </font>](docs/markdown/tips.md#programming-tips)
- [<font size="3"> Structuring a robot task </font>](docs/markdown/tips.md#structuring-a-robot-task)

## Workshops
The following links contain the workshops instructions:
- [<font size="3"> Workshop 1 </font>](docs/markdown/ws1.md)
- [<font size="3"> Workshop 2 </font>](docs/markdown/ws2.md)
- [<font size="3"> Workshop 3 </font>](docs/markdown/ws3.md)

## Links
<!-- TODO Find some nice things -->




<!-- Links -->
[1]: https://os.mbed.com/platforms/ST-Nucleo-F446RE/
[2]: https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f446re.html#documentation
